# Social-Media-Student-Mental-Health

COGS 108 Final Project
By: Kang Lee, Shamei Lu, Rachel Lo, Geovanny Guevara, and Derek Huang.

Our study aimed to explore the relationship between social media usage and mental health, particularly in students. Our findings suggested a weak correlation between social media usage and reported mental health impacts. Similarly, the analysis of dataset 2 revealed only a minor correlation, preventing us from drawing a definitive conclusion. As we looked into the demographic factors of gender and relationship status, the correlation of social media usage and these points, along with how these participants scored on the metric of mental health, only proposes a weak relation and is not significant to suggest that these platforms impact one's psychology. There are many contributing factors to mental health and social media is most likely only one of the many factors, however, it also suggests that other environmental, social, and personal influences can play a significant role in mental health that the datasets cannot take into account.

One of the biggest challenges we faced was dataset availability. Public datasets that specifically address the correlation between social media usage and mental health are hard to find. Those that do exist often lack depth or certain factors to answer our research question. As a result, we had to rely on voluntary surveys. One problem that arises with this format of surveys is that they only contain data that are self reported. Self-reported data can be influenced by personal biases, resulting in biased results. They also often only contain data of strongly opinionated individual’s, making the results less generalized and applicable to the society. In addition, the datasets do not account for individuals who already experience mental health challenges, creating an underrepresentation in our research as there is no sure way to know surveyees’ mental health status.

Measuring social media in itself was another challenge as the two datasets inlcuded mixed response formats and ranges. At times the format would use integers and other times it would use ranges in the form of a string. This made it harder to analyze the data as we had to create our own unified scale for the exploratory data analysis. Without this unified scale our exploratory data anlysis would have consisted of graphs with x and y scales from ranges 1 to 5. This would have provided little to nothing for our research question as we could not highlight or visualize any trends. Additionally, mental health is infuenced by many environmental and personal factors that go beyond social media. Since our study and data only focused on social media, we were not able to take into account these external factors.

Despite these limitations our research contributes the ongoing discussion about social media's role in mental health. While our findings were weak we beloive that with a larger data set and a structured data collection method that we could find evidence that social medai plays a role in the mental health of students.
